Polar integration (#461)
wasp-lang/open-saas: opensaas-sh/blog/src/content/docs/guides/payment-integrations/polar.mdx

---
title: Polar
banner:
  content: |
    Have an Open SaaS app in production? <a href="https://e44cy1h4s0q.typeform.com/to/EPJCwsMi">We'll send you some swag! 👕</a>
---
import ngrok from '@assets/ngrok.png';
import polarUserTable from '@assets/polar/user-table.png';
import polarWebhookLogs from '@assets/polar/webhook-log.png';
import { Image } from 'astro:assets';

First, make sure you've defined your payment processor in `src/payment/paymentProcessor.ts`, as described in the [important first steps](/guides/payment-integrations/).

Next, you'll need to create a Polar account in the sandbox mode. You can do that [here](https://sandbox.polar.sh/).

:::tip[Star our Repo on GitHub! 🌟]
We've packed in a ton of features and love into this SaaS starter, and offer it all to you for free!

If you're finding this template and its guides useful, consider giving us [a star on GitHub](https://github.com/wasp-lang/wasp)
:::

### Sandbox and Production Mode

Polar features two separate environemnts: [sandbox](https://sandbox.polar.sh/dashboard) and [production](https://polar.sh/dashboard).

> They are fully isolated from each other, which means that you need to create seperate organizations for each of them. They also feature indepdendant products, sales, access tokens, etc.

Reviewer: `you need to create seperate organizations for each of them`

really? I know Stripe allows you to work in sandbox mode and then copy all those settings to production. That's not possible with Polar?

5. Select the following scopes:
   - `checkouts:write`
   - `customer_sessions:write`
   - `customers:read`
   - `customers:write`
   - `orders:read`
6. Copy the generated token and add it to your `.env.server` file:
   ```ini title=".env.server"
   POLAR_ORGANIZATION_ACCESS_TOKEN=polar_oat_...
   ```

### Creating Products

To create Polar products, in your Polar dashboard:
1. Navigate to `Prodcuts > Catalogue` page.
2. Click on the `+ New Product` button to create a new product.
3. Fill in the product details.
   - For subscription products, select `Recurring subscription` pricing.
   - For one-time payment products, select `One-time purchase` pricing.  
4. Click `Create Product`.
5. Tap the `⠇` icon next to your product and select `Copy Product ID`. 
6. Add the `Product ID` to your `.env.server` file.
   Open SaaS by default expects three products, two subscriptions and one one-time purchase plan:
   ```ini title=".env.server"
   PAYMENTS_HOBBY_SUBSCRIPTION_PLAN_ID=<your-hobby-product-id>
   PAYMENTS_PRO_SUBSCRIPTION_PLAN_ID=<your-pro-product-id>
   PAYMENTS_CREDITS_10_PLAN_ID=<your-credits-product-id>
   ```

:::note[Naming products differently]

> Note that if you change names of your products, you'll need to update your app code to match these names as well.

Reviewer 2: What I'm worried here is I don't know the scope of "change names".
If they also change the names of the environment variables, they will have to change `.env.server` in addition to `plans.ts`.

> Note that if you change names of your products, you'll need to update your app code to match these names as well.

Reviewer 2: Added it but without `app`, since we didn't use `app` in rest of docs. 
So `src/payment/plans.ts`

:::

### Create and Use the Polar Webhook in Local Development

> Polar notifies your Wasp app about events through a webhook (for example, when a payment succeeds). During development, you need to expose your locally running Wasp server (started with `wasp start`) to the internet. Wasp server runs on port 3001 by default, so you can, for example, run `ngrok` on port 3001 to expose your server to the internet. `ngrok` will generate a public URL that you can give to Polar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Polar notifies your Wasp app about events, such as when a payment succeeds, through a webhook. During development, you need to expose your locally running Wasp server (started with `wasp start`) to the internet. The Wasp server runs on port 3001 by default, so you can, for example, run `ngrok` on port 3001 to expose your server to the internet. `ngrok` is a tool that generates a public URL for your app's webhook that you can give to Polar.
```

Reviewer 2: Took half your suggestion and half mine. Now it is like this:
<img width="663" height="815" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/02a85ed0-0dbf-4f5f-8638-92a8b0f7d74f" />

> First make sure you have installed [`ngrok`](https://ngrok.com/docs/getting-started/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. First, make sure you have installed [`ngrok`](https://ngrok.com/docs/getting-started/).
```

To do this, first make sure you have installed [`ngrok`](https://ngrok.com/docs/getting-started/).

Once `ngrok` is installed and your Wasp app is running, run:

```sh
ngrok http 3001
```

<Image src={ngrok} alt="ngrok" loading="lazy" />

`ngrok` will display a forwarding address. Copy this address and append `/payments-webhook` to it. It should look something like this: 

```sh title="Callback URL"
https://89e5-2003-c7-153c-72a5-f837.ngrok-free.app/payments-webhook
```

Next, configure the webhook in your Polar dashboard:
1. Navigate to `Settings > Webhooks` page.
2. Click `Add Endpoint` to create a new endpoint.
3. In the URL field, paste your `ngrok` forwarding address with `/payments-webhook` appended (for example: `https://abc123.ngrok-free.app/payments-webhook`).
4. Set the `Format` to `"Raw"`.
5. Select the following events to listen for:
   - `order.paid`
   - `subscription.updated`
6. Click `Save`.

> 7. Copy the generated webhook secret and add it to your `.env.server` file:

Reviewer 2: Same as here, this would be fine without the code block. https://github.com/wasp-lang/open-saas/pull/461#discussion_r2546859399
